Performance on a problem 
difficulties recalling a lot methods that come naturally to him when coding alone
no access to documentations
study session 
20-21 problems in 3 hours, he used all of it.  
Ready to take test, done with all exercises.  Within 6-7 minutes a question.  Confident enough to take the test.  

Interview prep:
tests different skills
he thought he was pretty familiar with the methods
they aren't cooked in his head enough
gotta be in the head in own notes
probably should not refer to notes too much
try to finish a problem in 20 minutes, just in case
again and again until it's hardwired
use irb to get to the end answer
provided you can remember the method
.ord method 
too many of the methods
** scanning documentation that he has used before

Lesson 5 - it was really interesting.
multiple iterations.  Wrapped up nicely, very useful
Test nested iterations in the interview.

short solutions are upvoted on codewars, take it with a grain of salt.

Don't try to condense all your code into one liner.  We will get to flesh it up at a later stage.  

Working solution, most important. 

```Ruby

Example 1 
arr1 = ["a", "b", "c"] #
arr2 = arr1.dup # working with copy of array 1
arr2.map! do |char| # mutating the original 
  char.upcase
end

p arr1 # => ["a", "b", "c"]
p arr2 # => ["A", "B", "C"]
p arr2

Example 2
arr1 = ["a", "b", "c"]
arr2 = arr1.dup
arr2.each do |char|
  char.upcase!
end

p arr1 # => ["A", "B", "C"]
p arr2 # => ["A", "B", "C"]
```

My suggestion was to what would these output?  Example 1, the question would be what do these output and why?

What principle and concept does this code demonstrate?  Everything that needs to be answered will be expressly said.

Interview allows for more broad language.

New York to Singapore - Max, Manhattan
worked for Japanese company that had an office in Singapore - Jesse
Jesse managed a recruiting company, helped team hire, building teams, HR side of it. interview processes, he sells beer, international sales in Singapore, Sweden, kind of crazy. 

line 13 create a copy of the object that is referenced by array 1
shallow copy meaning that the objects that are counted by both arrays are the same.  In fact different
Line 14 invoke the `each` method, and iterate over each element in array 2
line 15 we call the upcase method on each element of teh arr2.  
upcase with a bang 
```Ruby
a = 2
b = [5, 8]
arr = [a, b] # [2, [5, 8]]

arr[0] += 2 # arr[0] = arr[0] + 2 # 2 + 2 arr = [4, [5, 8]]
arr[1][0] -= a # b[0] -= a; b[0] = b[0] - a; b[0] = 5 - 2 = 3

p a # 2
p b # [3, 8]
p arr # [4, [3, 8]]
```
On lines 1 and 2 we initialize local variables a and b
b is initiazliex to array of 2 elements
line 3 initialize arr and points to a nested array
line 5 is shorthand for arr[0] += 2, arr[0] = arr[0] + 2
arr[0] points to the integer 2 --> 2 + 2
arr[0] points to the object referenced by arr[0] and is now 4
line 6 break this down in the following lines
 arr references the second element.  equivalent to b[0] -= a; 
a continues to the integer object 2
we have reassigned the 0 index of b and b has been mutated
and is now an array containing 3 and 8

Variable pointers. Pass by reference value. Richard's TA caught him.  

=begin
P: Define a method that takes a sentence and outputs the sentence in a box.
Input: String
Output: String in a box

E: print_in_box('To boldly go where no one has gone before.')
+--------------------------------------------+ - based on the length of the string
|                                            | - height by row setup with whitespace
| To boldly go where no one has gone before. | - how many characters are in the parameter passed to the method. 
|                                            |  - initialize variable to string length
+--------------------------------------------+  - variable is the string length 



A: initialize string_length variable
count the number of characters in the String
print a box that is a leading and trailing whitespace away from the edges.
  - line 1 is a representation of the string length in dashes with pluses on either end 
  - line 2 is a representation of the string length in spaces with gates on either end 
  - line 3 is the string printed with leading and trailing whitespace with gates on either end
  - print line 2 
  - then print 1
  - language agnostic - 

=end

def print_in_box(string)
  string_length_var = string.length
  p "+" + "-" * (string_length_var + 2) + "+"
  p "|" + " " * (string_length_var + 2) + "|"
  p "| " + string + " |"
  p "|" + " " * (string_length_var + 2) + "|"
  p "+" + "-" * (string_length_var + 2) + "+"
end

print_in_box('To boldly go where no one has gone before.')
print_in_box('hi')

=begin 
+--------------------------------------------+
|                                            |
| To boldly go where no one has gone before. |
|                                            |
+--------------------------------------------+
=end 

# print_in_box('')
=begin 
+--+
|  |
|  |
|  |
+--+
=end 

#You may assume that the input will always fit in your terminal window.
=begin 
+----+
|    |
| hi |
|    |
+----+
=end 

# You are given a method named spin_me that takes a string as an argument and returns a string that contains the same words, but with each word's characters reversed. Given the method's implementation, will the returned string be the same object as the one passed in as an argument or a different object?

# def spin_me(str)
#   str.split.each do |word|
#     word.reverse!
#   end.join(" ")
# end

# spin_me("hello world") # "olleh dlrow"

Write a method that takes a number as an argument. If the argument is a positive number, return the negative of that number. If the number is 0 or negative, return the original number.

# Examples:

# negative(5) == -5
# negative(-3) == -3
# negative(0) == 0      # There's no such thing as -0 in ruby

Input - number
  Number can be positive or a negative number
Output is also a Number
  If the number is positive, return the negative of that number
  If the number is 0, return 0
  If number is a negative one, return the original number (i.e. a negative number)
Algorithm
  decide whether its positive or negative
  three scenarios: if the number is positive, > 0, multiply the number by -1 and return the number
  If the number is 0, return 0
  If the number is negative, < 0, return the original number

def negative(int)
   if int > 0
    -int
   elsif int == 0
    0
  else
    int
  end
end

  end
end

def negative(number)
  number > 0 ? -number : number
end

https://www.codewars.com/kata/59d9ff9f7905dfeed50000b0/train/ruby

# Consider the word "abode". We can see that the letter a is in position 1 and b is in position 2. In the alphabet, a and b are also in positions 1 and 2. Notice also that d and e in abode occupy the positions they would occupy in the alphabet, which are positions 4 and 5.

# Given an array of words, return an array of the number of letters that occupy their positions in the alphabet for each word. For example,

input : array object
  - containing string objects
output: array object, same number of elements

rules: output array must contain numbers 
  - each number represents the count of characters in their correct alphabetical position
  - capitalization doesn't matter, caps insensitive
  - no non-alphabetical characters

Examples: 
a: string[0] => 0 # match
b: => 1 #match
o: => 14 #not a match
d: => 3 # match
e: => 4 # match
=> 4 matches

ALGORITHM:
initialize a Constant variable which reference the alphabet as a string
 define method that takes on argument, an array
 iterate through the array, initializing a variable called string
 initialize a variable called count which will keep the number of matches 
 for each string I will check how many characters are in position
  iterate through each string, with an index variable
    check the character at the string index positions
    if the character index position matches the same position of that character in my alphabet constant. 
    add one to the number of matches
  add final count to the array
 
 return an array that contains integers

Scratchpad:
ALPHA: 'abcdefghijklmnopqrestuvwxyz'
ALPHA.index('o')
The block parameter string is being passed to the
iterate through the array assigning the block parameter

Use a test case and run it through the method verbally first.  Find mistakes in the algorithm before start coding.  People don't really seem to use for loops in Ruby.  
```Ruby
def solve
ALPHA = 'abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz'

def solve(array)
  count_arr = []

  array.each do |string|
    count = 0
    # 0.upto(string.size - 1) do |index|
    for index in 0..string.size - 1
      count += 1 if string[index].downcase == ALPHA[index].downcase
    end

    count_arr << count
  end

  count_arr
end 

p solve(["abode","ABc","xyzD"]) == [4, 3, 1]
p solve(["abide","ABc","xyz"]) ==  [4,3,0]
p solve(["IAMDEFANDJKL","thedefgh","xyzDEFghijabc"]) == [6,5,7]
p solve(["encode","abc","xyzD","ABmD"]) == [1, 3, 1, 3]


# Input will consist of alphabet characters, both uppercase and lowercase. No spaces.


