Tricia - Seattle
Michael Kasenbacher - Senegal
        - Connecticut
Alex Castillo Gonzalez
Tony Liao


20 questions round around 3 hours to answer them
- most difficult time limit
- flies pretty fast, 8 min per question on average
- set up a timer to trigger after 1 hour, to check on status
- finished 101, study guide for written assessment, very detailed, go over articles written by students.  cover everything in the study guide
- questions are not that difficult, but do require technical precision
- overall, go everything in the study guide and the articles.  
- carefully read what the question asks
  - explain every relevant line of code
  - try to do my best

Interview - 
- no need to specifically prepare for this until written is done
- 2 problems similar to LS Small Problems
- at most 60 minutes to solve both of them
- explain thought process while coding
- practice talking out loud 
- low-level and high-level algorithm (explain the problem in English)
- implicit requirements - check the test cases
- closer to Medium problems
- CodeWars - problems somewhere between level 5-6

Michael - difficulty of knowing the right amount of specificity for questions.
  - reading former students' article, strong emphasis on being detailed
  - difficult to know

What does this code return and why?
```Ruby
[false, false, true].map { |something| "hi" }
```
`map` is the method to pass in each element from the array. Returns whatever the block returns. Iterate through and return `['hi', 'hi', 'hi']`
`map` method returns is a new array object. Important to mention it's a new one, not the same one.  Populated with return values from the block in each iteration. That array contains elements which are evaluated and returned by the block. Returns an array object made by the return values of the block.

What does this code return?
```Ruby
['ant', 'bear'].map do |elem|
  if elem.length < 4
    elem
  end
end
# => ['ant', nil]
```
returns new array object, returns `'ant'` at the first element and return `nil` at the second element

What does this code return?
```Ruby
[false, false, true].select { |something| "hi" }
# => [false, false, true]
# => the return value of the block is a string "hi"
```
If the RETURN value of the block evaluates to true.

Most common mistakes:
select
1. The element is selected if it evaluates to true
2. If the block returns true the element is selected
3. If the block evaluates to true (the block can't evaluate to true or false, the block is just a block)
 - instead RETURN value of the block evaluates to true

```Ruby
animal = "dog"

loop do |_|
  animal = "cat"
  var = "mouse"
  break
end

puts animal #=> 'cat'
puts var #=> raise an error undefined local variable
```
We call 'loop' method and pass 'do..end' block to it as the argument

`_` is used whenever I am not using the parameter in the block, by convention we put the underscore because it is not in use.

short code we usually need to explain every line
Variables initialized in the outer scope can be accessed in the inner scope defined by the block, line `9` outputs "cat" and returns `nil` and since variables initialized in inner scope can't be accessed in outer one, line `10` raises and error.

Variables intialized in the outer socpe can be accessed in inner scope defined by the block, but not vice versa.

```Ruby
animal = 'dog'

loop do |animal|
  animal = 'cat'
  var = 'mouse'
  break
end

puts animal # dog
puts var # raise an error
```
Even though variables on lines `1` and `4` have the same name they are not the same variable.Parameter has the same name as the variable initialized on line 1.  Shadowing is making the line inaccessible. It can cause so many errors when I am trying to track. If this happens, this is the reason, same name.

```Ruby
def test(str)
  str += '!!!'
  str.upcase!
end

test_str = "Something"
test(test_str)

puts test_str
```
Start at initialized to string "Something"
To initialize means to declare variable and to assign something to it.
On line 7 we invoke the test method and pass it the test_str argument. str is used as an alias to the test_str variable
Line 2 is syntactical sugar for str + '!!!' = str.  With this reassignment, this is creating a new object.  The string within the method is not the same as the string object "Something"
Line 3 calling upcase method on the string that represents the 
Since the string was reassigned to a whole new object, the link was broken between the original string object.

****
Srdjan's response:
On line `6`, we initialize `test_str` to "Something"
On line `7` we call method `test` and pass `test_str` to it as the argument.
Once the method is invoked both `str` and `test_str` point to the same object.
On line `2` `str` variable is reassigned to a different string object, so `str` and `test_str` no longer point to the same string object.  It is no longer possible to mutate the object `test_str` variable points to.

For this reason line `9` outputs "Something" and returns `nil`.

We are calling a method "upcase!" on `str`. We mutate `str`. # INCORRECT

 We can't mutate variables and we can't call methods on variables.

****
Markdown -
 single backtick is used to highlight variable names and line numbers
 - split into paragraphs
 - major goal is readability